Museums were born out of the prospect of displaying objects, ideas, themes and the varying culture of our ancestors. Whether it be science or art, a museum always leaves you walking out in awe. An art museum is not simply a showcase of talent where the most famous paintings are put up simply for people to look at, admire momentarily, and then forget as they move on to the next piece. In fact, art is transcendent. We buy unique paintings to decorate buildings and transform spaces. We listen to music calmly as we drive and as a form of motivation as we push our bodies to their limit at the gym. When a new movie comes out we all flock to stand in line at the nearest theater to be the first ones to watch it. We enjoy going to the theater to eat enough popcorn and to drink enough Coca Cola to send your dentist into shock. Even if it means sitting in the front seats craning your neck. But why do we prefer going to the movie theater over watching it in the comfort of our living room? Because it's all about the experience. This is our way of fully immersing ourselves and engaging in an artistic masterpiece on the big screen and to understand the director’s perspective in a grandiose way. In a similar manner, a museum also provides the “experience”. Everyone who isn't living under a rock has seen Michelangelo’s David, but to be standing in front of the art piece and to contemplate upon the level of mastery required to produce a piece like that can most thoroughly be done in person. An art museum serves to allow individuals to immerse themselves into a subject matter that transcends national, ethnic and linguistic boundaries. We are able to understand the context of an art piece and able to see the progression of art over time, to see the influence of culture and the importance of religion to many people of Europe, to see the evolution of art in a specific region over time and to compare it to that of different regions. These things can only be found in an art museum. It is the ambiance of an art museum that truly allows you to appreciate the art. 
While I have yet to step foot into our university museum or any museum in a prestigious university, there are many things that I can look forward to seeing. At a university we are at the pinnacle of our education, and any resource provided by the university such as Blanton likely promotes and nurtures our love for a certain subject. I expect the art in Blanton, to be representative of all cultures and not be Eurocentric as many art museums are. The diversity of our own university should be shown in Blanton. It should be a history of art all over the globe, which would hopefully inspire a desire to understand art of many different cultures, artistic styles, and movements.

